---
layout: document
title: "RDFa: Making content editable"
name: rdfa
---
RDFa is a way of making regular HTML pages also understandable like machines. It is often used for communicating the information on your website to search engines in a more structured way, but it is also used by Create.js to make content editable.

The RDFa capabilities in Create.js are provided by VIE, a library that connects RDFa content and Backbone.js models together.

## Making a content object editable

The base use case of editing content with RDFa in Create.js is to mark-up an individual content object as such.

If you're for example displaying an article with:

    <div class="article">
      <h1>Some title</h1>
      <div>
        Some content
      </div>
    </div>

Then all RDFa needed to make it editable would be:

    <div class="article" about="/my/article">
      <h1 property="title">Some title</h1>
      <div property="content">
        Some content
      </div>
    </div>

This way VIE understands that the information contained in the outer DIV is an editable object identified by URI `/my/article`. It also understands that is has two editable properties, `title` and `content`.

This information comes from the newly-added attributes:

* `about` gives the identifier of an object. The identifiers should be [URIs](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_resource_identifier), but basically anything that your back-end will understand is fine
* `property` tells that the h1 contains the title of the post, and the div contains the contents. These become attributes of our Backbone model instance

In addition to `about` and `property`, you can also tell VIE the type of the content object using the `typeof` attribute:

    <div class="article" about="/my/article" typeof="sioc:Post">
      <h1 property="title">Some title</h1>
      <div property="content">
        Some content
      </div>
    </div>

This would tell us that the editable entity is a [blog post](http://rdfs.org/sioc/spec/#term_Post).

## Collections

Relationships between entities allow you to communicate structured content to Create.js, which will turn them into Backbone collections. For example, to annotate a list of blog posts:

    <div about="http://example.net/blog/" rel="dcTerms:hasPart">
      <div about="http://example.net/my-post">...</div>
      <div about="http://example.net/second-post">...</div>
    </div>

This tells Create that there is a blog entity, which contains a collection of two posts. The important things here are:

* The first `about` identifies also the blog post container as an entity
* `rel` tells that there is a relation between the blog container, and the blog posts under it

Create will use the first entity inside a collection as a "template", and knows how to add or remove entities from the collection. In Edit mode the user would see an _Add_ button next to the collection.

## Vocabularies

You're free to use any vocabulary to describe your content for Create.js. However, there are some existing vocabulary definitions that are useful, especially if you'd like your RDFa data to be usable by other tools beside Create, like search engines:

* [Schema.org](http://schema.org/docs/schemas.html)
* [SIOC](http://sioc-project.org/ontology)
