---
layout: document
title: Storage widget
name: storage
source: "https://github.com/bergie/create/blob/master/src/jquery.Midgard.midgardStorage.js"
---
The `Midgard.midgardStorage` widget keeps track of content items edited using the [Editable widget](#editable), and provides saving and loading functionality via both localStorage (for unsaved drafts) and the CMS back-end.

The Storage widget will be automatically instatiated by Create.js, but if you want to use it standalone, you can also:

    jQuery('body').midgardStorage({
      vie: new VIE(),
      url: function (item) { return '/some/url'; }
    });

## Communications with the CMS back-end

Create communicates with your server-side system using [Backbone.sync](http://documentcloud.github.com/backbone/#Sync). By default this means that we send and retrieve content encoded in [JSON-LD](http://json-ld.org/) over XmlHttpRequest calls.

If you're using this default approach, it is important to provide the URL of the endpoint on your server that you want Backbone and Create to talk with. This can be done by passing a string when initializing `midgardCreate`:

    jQuery('body').midgardCreate({
        url: function() { return '/some/backend/url'; }
    });

When implemented this way, all communications from Create will happen using normal RESTful HTTP calls to that URL.

* Creating a new object makes a `HTTP POST` to the URL
* Updating or fetching an object makes a `HTTP PUT` or `HTTP GET` to that URL with the `id` of the object appended (for example `/some/backend/url/objectId`)

If you need more flexibility with your URL structure, you can also pass a function that returns the URL for an object.

You can override this default communications layer by [implementing your own](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/5096549/how-to-override-backbone-sync) `Backbone.sync` method. Some examples:

* [Backbone.sync with CouchDB](https://github.com/janmonschke/backbone-couchdb)
* [Backbone.sync with Amazon SimpleDB](https://github.com/developmentseed/backbone-simpledb)

## Configuration

* `localStorage`: Whether to enable localStorage. The Storage widget will automatically use Modernizr to probe whether browser has support for it and enable it accordingly
* `vie`: [VIE](http://viejs.org) instance to be used for content items
* `url`: The URL callback function used with Backbone.sync
* `autoSave`: Whether autosaving is enabled. `false` by default
* `autoSaveInterval`: autosaving interval, in milliseconds
* `editableNs`: jQuery UI event namespace used for Editable widgets. By default `midgardeditable`
* `templates`: HTMl templates for user interface message contents of this widget

## Methods

The Storage widget provides some public methods you can call:

* `saveRemote`: save all pending changes to the remote server. Takes an options object with `success` and `error` callbacks. Example:

    jQuery('body').midgardStorage('saveRemote', {
      success: function () {
        console.log("All saved!");
      },
      error: function () {
        console.log("Failed");
      }
    });

* `checkRestore`: if there are local modifications to editable entities, show a notification dialog asking whether to restore them. Example:

    jQuery('body').midgardStorage('checkRestore');

* `disableSave`: temporarily prevent autosaving
* `enableSave`: re-enable autosaving

## Events

* `midgardstorageloaded`: when an item has been restored from localStorage
* `midgardstoragesave`: when save to back-end has been initiated. Event data contains models key with all the changed entities
* `midgardstoragesaved`: when save has completed succesfully
* `midgardstorageerror`: when saving an entity failes. Event data contains the failed entity instance
