---
layout: document
title: Create widget
name: create
source: "https://github.com/bergie/create/blob/master/src/jquery.Midgard.midgardCreate.js"
---
The `Midgard.midgardCreate` widget is what ties everything together in the Create.js user interface.

Starting Create:

    jQuery(document).ready(function() {
      jQuery('body').midgardCreate({
        url: function() { return '/some/backend/url'; }
      });
    });

You can pass Create configuration options when calling the midgardCreate widget. For example, to use Aloha Editor instead of Hallo, do:

    jQuery('body').midgardCreate({
      url: function() { return '/some/backend/url'; },
      editor: 'aloha',
      workflows: {
        url: function(model) {
            return '/some/backend/workflows/fetch/url/' + model.id;
        }
      }
    });

## Configuration

The behavior of Create.js can be modified by passing various configuration keys to the `midgardCreate` widget:

* `toolbar`: Initial toolbar rendering style, either `full` or `minimized`
* `state`: Initial usage state, either `browse` or `edit`
* `highlight`: Whether to highlight editable elements when entering _edit_ mode
* `highlightColor`: Color to use for the highlights. By default `#67cc08` (light green)
* `editorWidgets`: widgets for editing different types of content. By default Hallo is used
* `editorOptions`: additional editor options
* `url`: callback function used for determining the URL where to save content items
* `vie`: an instance of [VIE](http://viejs.org). If this is not provided, Create will instantiate one
* `stanbolUrl`: URL for the Stanbol instance used for content enhancements
* `dbPediaUrl`: URL for the DBpedia instance used for fetching additional information on linked entities
* `tags`: Whether to enable the tag widget

## Events

Create is an event-based user interface. Normally integrators shouldn't need to deal with these events, but they're explained here in case of some customization needs.

* `midgardcreatestatechange`: when user switches between _browse_ and _edit_ modes. Event data contains an object with key `state` telling the state being changed to

## Using a custom VIE instance

There are many reasons for using your own configuration of VIE with Create.js. You may for instance want to enable different services, or Stanbol access points there.

The VIE instance should at least have the `RDFaService` loaded to it. For example:

    // Prepare VIE
    var v = new VIE();
    v.use(new v.RdfaService());

    // Load Create.js with your VIE instance
    jQuery('body').midgardCreate({
      vie: v
    });

## Defining custom editors

Managing of different content editors is handled by the [Editable](#editable) widget in Create.js. For convenience, the editor setup can however be provided using a configuration API in the Create widget.

The editors themselves are provided by a Create.js compatible `editingWidget`. The system comes with some pre-built editing widgets, including plain `contentEditable`, [Hallo](http://hallojs.org/), and [Aloha Editor](http://aloha-editor.org), but you can also build your own.

Editor configuration starts by defining a new _named editor configuration_, in this example an editor called `title` that uses Hallo:

    jQuery('body').midgardCreate('configureEditor', 'title', 'halloWidget', {
      plugins: {
        halloformat: {}
      }
    });

Once an editor has been defined, Create can be configured to use it for various editable properties. This can be done by property name, for example:

    jQuery('body').midgardCreate('setEditorForProperty', 'dcterms:title', 'title');

The same editor configuration can be reused in as many properties as you like. If you're using the VIE type system, then editors can also be configured for property types:

    jQuery('body').midgardCreate('setEditorForType', 'Text', 'title');

If you want to use a particular editor configuration as the default, you can also do:

    jQuery('body').midgardCreate('setEditorForProperty', 'default', 'title');

### Making a property non-editable

The editor configuration system can also be used to make properties non-editable by setting their editor to `null`:

    jQuery('body').midgardCreate('setEditorForProperty', 'dcterms:author', null);
